Introduction
************

`Kytos SDN Platform <https://kytos.io>`_ is the fastest way to deploy an SDN
Network. With this you can deploy a basic OpenFlow controller or your own
controller. Kytos was designed to be easy to install, use, develop and share
Network Apps (NApps). Kytos is incredibly powerful and easy, its modular design
makes Kytos a lightweight SDN Platform.

Kytos is conceived to ease SDN controllers development and deployment. It was
motivated by some gaps left by common SDN solutions. Moreover, it has strong
tights with a community view, so it is centered on the development of
applications by its users. Thus, our intention is not only to build a new SDN
solution, but also to build a community of developers around it, creating new
applications that benefit from the SDN paradigm.

The project was born in 2014, when the first version of the message parsing
library was built. After some time stalled, the development took off in earlier
2016.

For more information about this project, please visit `Kytos project website
<https://kytos.io/>`_.

Main highlights
===============

Speed focused
-------------

We keep the word performance in mind since the beginning of the development.
Also, as computer scientists we will always try to get the best performance by
using the most suitable algorithm.

Some developers participated in several demonstrations involving tests with
high-speed networks (~ 1 terabit/s), some even involving data transfers from/to
CERN.

Easy to learn
-------------

We try to code in a "pythonic way" always. We also have a well documented API.

Born to be free
---------------

OpenFlow was born with a simple idea: make your network more vendor agnostic
and we like that!

We are advocates and supporters of free software and we believe that the more
eyes observe a certain code, a better code will be generated. This project can
receive support of many vendors, but never will follow a particular vendor
direction.

We always will keep this code open.

.. _sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _tcpdump: http://www.tcpdump.org/

